### Earth System Response to Climate Mitigation and Geoengineering Intervention | Observations, ERA5 Reanalysis, CMIP6 (GeoMIP/CDRMIP), and AI
#### In the first iteration of this pursuit, we evaluate the potential implications of mitigation and intervention strategies with a set of experiments utilizing historical reanalysis data (e.g., ERA5) and scenario-based model simulations (e.g., GeoMIP, CDRMIP) to examine the global response to deploying these strategies. The following iteration will integrate a reduced complexity model (i.e., OSCAR v3.3) and artificial intelligence (AI) into the framework to better understand the disparities among the permafrost carbon feedback (PCF) as well as optimizing the decision-process governing mitigation and geoengineering intervention. GeoEngAI is a hybridized ensemble learning framework composed of stacked convolutional layers and long short-term memory-encoded bidirectional recurrent neural networks. This multimodal deep learning architecture simultaneously ingests and analyzes reanalysis observations (ERA5) and process-based CMIP6 modeling ensemble outputs (i.e., 2-m temperature, total precipitation, atmospheric methane concentration).
>> Bradley A. Gay, PhD | NASA Postdoctoral Program Fellow
>> Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology
### Relevant Manuscripts
#### Gay, B. A., Mandrake, L., Miner, K. R., & Miller, C. E., 2024. Assessing Earth System Responses to Climate Mitigation and Intervention with Scenario-Based Simulations and Data-Driven Insight. Nature, Climate Engineering. Under Review.
#### Gay, B. A., Pastick, N. J., Watts, J. D., et al., 2024. Decoding the Spatiotemporal Complexities of the Permafrost Carbon Feedback with Multimodal Ensemble Learning. Journal of Geophysical Research, Machine Learning and Computation. Under Review.
#### Gay, B. A., Züfle, A. E., Armstrong, A. H., et al. Investigating Permafrost Carbon Dynamics in Alaska with Artificial Intelligence, December 26, 2023. ESS Open Archive. https://doi.org/10.22541/essoar.170355056.64772303/v1
#### Gay, B. A., Züfle, A. E., Armstrong, A. H., et al. Investigating High-Latitude Permafrost Carbon Dynamics with Artificial Intelligence and Earth System Data Assimilation, December 26, 2023. ESS Open Archive. https://doi.org/10.22541/essoar.170355053.35677457/v1
#### Gay, B.A., Pastick, N.J., Züfle, A.E., Armstrong, A.H., Miner, K.R., Qu, J.J., 2023. Investigating permafrost carbon dynamics in Alaska with artificial intelligence. Environmental Research Letters 18. https://doi.org/10.1088/1748-9326/ad0607
#### Gay, B. A., (2023). Investigating High-Latitude Permafrost Carbon Dynamics with Artificial Intelligence and Earth System Data Assimilation. (Order No. 30488695, George Mason University). ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, 281. Retrieved from https://www.proquest.com/dissertations-theses/investigating-high-latitude-permafrost-carbon/docview/2826111475/se-2
